##credits goes to edureka


Java is a general-purpose, concurrent, object-oriented, class-based, and the runtime environment(JRE) which consists of JVM which is the cornerstone of the Java platform. This blog on What is Java will clear all your doubts about why to learn java, features and how it works.

In this What is Java blog, I would be covering following topics:

What is Java used for?
History of Java
What is Java?
Features of Java
Components in Java
What is Java used for?
Before I answer the question, what is Java used for, let me brief you about why you should choose Java. Java is highly popular and has dominated this field from early 2000’s till the present 2018. 

Java has been used in different domains. Some of them are listed below:

Banking: To deal with transaction management.
Retail: Billing applications that you see in a store/restaurant are completely written in Java.
Information Technology: Java is designed to solve implementation dependencies.
Android: Applications are either written in Java or use Java API.
Financial services: It is used in server-side applications.
Stock market: To write algorithms as to which company they should invest in.  
Big Data: Hadoop MapReduce framework is written using Java.
Scientific and Research Community: To deal with huge amount of data.
Wait! Java can do more.

Let’s see how some of the technologies make use of Java as an essential core of their functionalities.

Technologies Use Java - What is Java - EdurekaLet’s see how some of the technologies make use of Java as an essential core of their functionalities.

You can see in the above image, Java is an ocean of opportunities.

Let us see a brief history of Java.

History of Java
Java is a programming language developed by James Gosling with other team members named Mike Sheridan and Patrick Naughton also called as Green Team in 1995 for Sun Microsystems for digital devices such as set-top boxes, televisions etc. Now, let us see in detail what is Java.


What is Java?
It is an object-oriented language similar to C++, but with advanced and simplified features. Java is free to access and can run on all platforms.

Java Definition - What is Java - Edureka

Java is: –

Concurrent where you can execute many statements instead of sequentially executing it.
Class-based and an object-oriented programming language.
Independent programming language that follows the logic of “Write once, Run anywhere” i.e. the compiled code can run on all platforms which supports java.
In simple words, it is a computing platform where you can develop applications.
